HTTP Requests and Responses
Answer the following questions about the HTTP request and response process.


What type of architecture does the HTTP request and response process occur in? Client - Server Architecture


What are the different parts of an HTTP request? The request line. The header, An empty line to indicate end of Header field, Message Body


Which part of an HTTP request is optional? Message body


What are the three parts of an HTTP response? The start line, the Headers and the body


Which number class of status codes represents errors? 400 class 


What are the two most common request methods that a security professional will encounter? GET and POST requests


Which type of HTTP request method is used for sending data? POST request


Which part of an HTTP request contains the data being sent to the server? The request body 


In which part of an HTTP response does the browser receive the web code to generate and style a web page? The response body



Using curl
Answer the following questions about curl:


What are the advantages of using curl over the browser? You can manage HTTP requests/responses in a repeatable way that can be automated and you can support
numerous protocols even without a UI


Which curl option is used to change the request method? -X


Which curl option is used to set request headers? -H


Which curl option is used to view the response header? -I


Which request method might an attacker use to figure out which HTTP requests an HTTP server will accept? Options



Sessions and Cookies
Recall that HTTP servers need to be able to recognize clients from one another. They do this through sessions and cookies.
Answer the following questions about sessions and cookies:


Which response header sends a cookie to the client?
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-type: text/html
Set-Cookie: cart=Bob

Set-Cookie: cart=Bob sends a cookie to the client


Which request header will continue the client's session?
GET /cart HTTP/1.1
Host: www.example.org
Cookie: cart=Bob
'Connection: keep-alive'



Example HTTP Requests and Responses
Look through the following example HTTP request and response and answer the following questions:
HTTP Request
POST /login.php HTTP/1.1
Host: example.com
Accept-Encoding: gzip, deflate, br
Connection: keep-alive
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
Content-Length: 34
Upgrade-Insecure-Requests: 1
User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Linux; Android 6.0; Nexus 5 Build/MRA58N) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/80.0.3987.132 Mobile Safari/537.36

username=Barbara&password=password


What is the request method? POST


Which header expresses the client's preference for an encrypted response? Upgrade-Insecure-Requests: 1


Does the request have a user session associated with it? No it is not established yet


What kind of data is being sent from this request body? The users login credentials


HTTP Response
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 16 Mar 2020 17:05:43 GMT
Last-Modified: Sat, 01 Feb 2020 00:00:00 GMT
Content-Encoding: gzip
Expires: Fri, 01 May 2020 00:00:00 GMT
Server: Apache
Set-Cookie: SessionID=5
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
Strict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000; includeSubDomains
X-Content-Type: NoSniff
X-Frame-Options: DENY
X-XSS-Protection: 1; mode=block

[page content]


What is the response status code? 200


What web server is handling this HTTP response? Apache


Does this response have a user session associated to it? Yes, it is SessionID=5


What kind of content is likely to be in the [page content] response body? The pages configuration details


If your class covered security headers, what security request headers have been included? Strict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000; includeSubDomains



Monoliths and Microservices
Answer the following questions about monoliths and microservices:


What are the individual components of microservices called? Services


What is a service that writes to a database and communicates to other services? API's


What type of underlying technology allows for microservices to become scalable and have redundancy? Load Balancers



Deploying and Testing a Container Set
Answer the following questions about multi-container deployment:


What tool can be used to deploy multiple containers at once? Docker


What kind of file format is required for us to deploy a container set? a Yaml Playbook, .yml file



Databases


Which type of SQL query would we use to see all of the information within a table called customers? SELECT * FROM customers


Which type of SQL query would we use to enter new data into a table? (You don't need a full query, just the first part of the statement.) INSERT INTO () VALUES ()


Why would we never run DELETE FROM <table-name>; by itself? It will delete the entire table.




Step 3: Using Forms and a Cookie Jar
Navigate to ~/Documents in a terminal to save your cookies.


Construct a curl request that enters two forms: "log={username}" and "pwd={password}" and goes to http://localhost:8080/wp-login.php. Enter Ryan's credentials where there are placeholders.


Question: Did you see any obvious confirmation of a login? (Y/N) Yes



Construct the same curl request, but this time add the option and path to save your cookie: --cookie-jar ./ryancookies.txt. This option tells curl to save the cookies to the ryancookies.txt text file.


Read the contents of the ryancookies.txt file.


Question: How many items exist in this file? 3 items



Note that each one of these is a cookie that was granted to Ryan after logging in.

Step 4: Log in Using Cookies


Craft a new curl command that now uses the --cookie option, followed by the path to your cookies file. For the URL, use http://localhost:8080/wp-admin/index.php.


Question: Is it obvious that we can access the Dashboard? (Y/N) No



Press the up arrow on your keyboard to run the same command, but this time, pipe | grep Dashboard to the end of your command to return all instances of the word Dashboard on the page.


Question:  Look through the output where Dashboard is highlighted. Does any of the wording on this page seem familiar? (Y/N) If so, you should be successfully logged in to your Editor's dashboard.

Yes




Step 5: Test the Users.php Page


Finally, write a curl command using the same --cookie ryancookies.txt option, but attempt to access http://localhost:8080/wp-admin/users.php.


Question: What happens this time? Error page : Message: You need a higher level of permission . Sorry you are not allowed to list users.





Submission Guidelines

Save the file where you documented your solutions and submit it as your homework deliverable.